# Stock-Analysis
## Project Overview
Analyzing Stock market data using structured and efficient VBA code to visualize and facilitate making stock portfolio adjustments 
## Results
With the use of VBA we are able to restructure the code in a way that make it easier to run and help us effieciently run any set of stock market data. Instead of having to input specific formulas into excel or specifying the year we want the code to run, we instead replaced the numbered year with a yearValue function. Changing this specific part in the code expands the use for analysis for past and possible future stock data sets and make customizations to different stock portfolios.
## Excecution
Replacing and cleaning up parts of the original code allows for quicker execution and customization. In restructuring the code we could see that making specific adjusments allowed the code to run more than 2x faster. Since the traditional code was used to only analyze a detailed sector of the stock market, the purpose to refactor the code was to allow a broader customization of various stock portfolios which could include more data points than we were given thus needing a more efficient code to run through more data points.
## Advantages and Disadvantages of Refactoring Code
The purpose of refactoring code is for efficiency, maintainability and tailoring code to specific needs. In the beginning, the focus was to only analyze a sector of the stock market but later found it more valuable to refactor the code to help analyze larger or different sets of stock data. In order to do this, we needed to have a code that was more suited to run a larger set of stock data quickly and efficiently. Accomplishing this saves time and allows the code to be more condensed.
In the long run refactoring code can be great, however there are certain setbacks. The first setback is that we first have to understand the logistics of the code and determine what the purpose is. After understanding the code, the next decision is to figure out which parts of the code need to be changed to get to the goal of efficiently. If we don't do either of the steps correctly then this could lead to errors running the code and hinder the purpose of saving time.
## How do these pros and cons apply to refactoring the original VBA script?
